---
title: "A computer-aided system for knee injury diagnosis using MRI"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2020-12-25-talk-4
venue: "TMU AI meeting, Taipei Medical University"
date: 2020-12-25
location: "Taipei, Taiwan"
---

Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is the "gold-standard" for early detecting and diagnosing knee injuries, which are the most common injuries in sport medicine. However, the radiologic interpretation of knee MRI is time-consuming and inaccurate in various cases. Artificial intelligence (AI) is able to assist clinical physicians and radiologists in making diagnosis that is more reliable. In this study, we implemented a comprehensive AI system to optimize the diagnosis and attain early detection of knee injuries. 
Our research was approved by the institutional review board (IRB) from Cho Ray Hospital, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam under ethical code 1005/GCN-HĐĐĐ. MRI interpretation results with one or more of the following diagnoses were considered suitable for the study purpose: anterior cruciate ligament tear, posterior cruciate ligament tear, meniscal tear, medial collateral ligament injury, lateral collateral ligament injury, patellofemoral extensor mechanism injury, and full-thickness cartilage, osseous defect or multiple injuries. Next, a deep learning-based AI model was implemented to extract and learn features from MRIs directly.
In summary, our model is able to promptly carry out accurate classifications of knee MRI exams. Moreover, our findings offer one sufficient method using artificial intelligence into clinical practice, specifically in orthopedics and radiologic field.

